You have got those.
Okay, so if you, um, oh, oh, there we go. There we go.
If we look at the, the first slide, um, yeah, yeah.
Your labor, um, you'll see hundreds of dots.
Um, each of these dots represents a law, a rule,
or an agency.
Um, and together, um, you could say
that they form a constellation.
It's pretty vast. It's pretty scattered,
and it's hard to navigate.
Um, and what this demonstrates is
that over decades well-intentioned decisions have created a
constellation of regulation.
And whilst it's impressive in scale, um, in practice,
it's confusing and costly.
Um, if we go to the next slide, um, this is
where the picture goes much deeper, um,
shows the added secondary legislation.
And here the complexity multiplies, um, rules linked
to rules, or even more intertwined,
interconnected, and overlapping.
It's not just scattered, it's tangled.
Um, and for businesses
and communities, it means more time, more cost,
and more frustration.
Um, the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research has
indicated that the cost
of the complexity is $5 billion a year in compliance,
and up to $12 billion in lost economic potential, uh,
which is money that could be building businesses,
creating jobs, and improving lives.
So our purpose as a ministry is to redraw all these maps so
that businesses and communities in everyday New Zealanders
can navigate the rules and regulations easily.
Uh, when the map's clear, the economy will shine brighter,
and the innovation will flow
and pave the way to healthier, wealthier,
and happier lives for New Zealanders, um, as you said, Mr.
Chairman and your welcome, um,
we started on the 1st of March, um,
and over the last, uh, 16 months that we're looking at,
we've already made change happen.
Just run you through a couple of examples.
So we've re removed unnecessary advertising restrictions
for medical conferences,
unlocking millions in future revenue,
and helping bring major events back to New Zealand.
We've stopped unnecessary new rules for buy now,
pay later services that would've raised cost for consumers,
simplified anti-money laundering requirements
for property transactions
and gift cards,
reducing compliance costs while maintaining
strong protections.
Personal favorite of mine is working with the Ministry
of Justice to raise outdated care income thresholds
and nearly half a million carers in New Zealand.
And this makes their lives easier,
means they can spend more time caring for their loved.
One other simple rules that we've had, uh,
changed, um, scaffolding garden sheds, making life easier
for businesses and homeowners.
Um, and in addition, we've got our large regulatory reviews,
which are also unlocking significant economic potential
across key sectors.
So, reducing red tape for hairdressers,
creating more harmony with international rules
and the importation of agriculture
and horticulture products,
and simplifying rules for busy ECE teachers.
What's been act a great part for us
of the last 16 months is high New Zealanders have been
engaging with us and speaking up, um,
through our red tape tip line,
we've received over 1400 tips.
And through our regulatory reviews, we've heard thousands
of real life stories of frustration
and wasted effort, which we're able to act on.
So we've changed legislation, remove regulation,
and decreased time spent on paperwork.
Um, just last week we published that across 12 issues,
and that's not everything we're working on.
Our reforms will deliver 223
to 337 million in net benefits over the next decade.
And given that the cost of set up for the ministry
and running for the 16 months is around 20 million,
that's a return of 11 to $17 for every dollar spent.
Yeah. And once numbers
and are important, actually, it's the story that they tell,
it's a story about stronger business
and a system that's improving how it works
for people, not against them.
But you've seen from those first two slides that I showed
that the opportunity is huge
and there is much, much work to do.
We need to build regulatory systems that are simple,
that are easy to understand
and follow, that are fairer,
protecting people in the environment,
and also are future ready to enable growth and innovation.
Because the rules are things
that actually impact people's everyday lives.
And if we get it right, we can create a healthier,
wealthier, and happier New Zealand.
So thank you very much, and we
look forward to your questions.
Oh, thank you very much. Uh, chief Executive Moss,
and, um, uh, just, just, just to, um, uh, reiterate
that we have got, uh, till one o'clock,
and so we've got plenty of time, uh, to get through, uh,
our, uh, scrutinization o
of this relatively new, um, ministry.
I'm gonna go to Labor's lead, Dr. Duncan
Webb. Oh, Kira. Thank you,
Mr. Chair. Uh, and, uh, thank you.
Last look. I wanted to start with, um, the relationship
with Maori.
Um, and I guess my first question,
I'll just give you an opportunity to comment, really.
Do you think that the ministries perform poorly in respect
of its treaty obligations?
And do you have any particular work programs
to improve your male body brown capability?
Good work? So, what we have done has been very, uh,
tailored to the New Zealanders who have engaged with us,
and actually, they've come from all walks of life.
Um, and I mean,
I think we have found the volume quite challenging.
Uh, we haven't realized, I mean, 1400 tips.
We never expected that from the red tip tip line, two
and a half thousand submissions on ECE.
I mean, it's all great staff.
So I think we need to continue to work on our systems
and processes to deal with
that enthusiasm from all across New Zealanders and,
and all, all New Zealand groups.
Um, we are a very small ministry, so we're, um,
less than a hundred people.
So one of the things that we do do in terms of capability
and capacity across a number of fronts, including working
with EBI and Mari, is, uh, work alongside
and lean into the competency capability
and the depth that's in the public service.
And I'd be very happy to hand over to my colleague Paula,
who can talk you through a couple of the initiatives
that we have got, um, in conjunction with some
of our publics service agencies
In respect of And in respect.
Yes, yes. In respect of that. Yes.
Yes, certainly. Um, so as, um, my colleague has said
Maori crown relation, uh,
Maori crown capability is a key area of focus for us.
Um, what we're doing at the moment is,
and we're very pleased to be one
of the first agencies who's actually working with,
to pilot the framework.
Um, that's a Maori public policy framework
that guides government decision making.
Um, we are on that journey with them at the moment,
and that's where the specific focus on embedding
that into our policy work, uh,
and also into our engagement work.
As I said, we're really pleased to be one
of the first agencies that's doing that.
Um, we are also looking at other opportunities
to invite people into our agency to work with us. And,
And is that in response to your action plan, in respect
to the public service census, or is that a different,
or is that a different work program?
I think it is part of, so we get insights from many
people, and we did get insights from staff as well,
and I'm sure you'll have looked at our census results,
which we were, uh, really pleased with as a new ministry.
So we had one of the highest participation rates,
but we also had one of the highest engagement scores,
and we did it very early on in our, um, existence.
Um, so we were able to take the feedback from staff to,
to form, um, the development plan for the agency.
But we've also been taking feedback, as I say,
from people that have dealt with us.
I mean, those many, many, uh,
people who've engaged with us through
Review one. And I, I'm assuming
you weren't pleased
with your RES results in respect of Ma Crown capability?
I think, look, we're a very new agency,
so we had no expectations about
what the results would be. I think getting those,
I I compared your results
with the Social Investment Agency, um,
which is also a brand new agency June 24.
Um, and it largely met
or exceeded public service averages.
If you look at your, uh, results, um,
the new agency, um, the
Agency's Treaty of Wang responsibilities, people
who understand how its agency's treaty
of White Wang responsibilities apply to its work, uh,
was less than half of your staff.
Whereas the public service average is 77%.
So have you got a problem that you need to address in terms
of your staff understanding what it means to apply
to treaty principles to its work?
So I think, um, couple of issues there
that you've raised is, I wouldn't say that we're comparable
to the social investment agency.
The social investment agency actually had a forerunner
called Social Wellbeing Agency
that also had a forerunner called a
Social investment agency.
So a number of, they weren't starting from scratch.
They had a number of processes, are
You consumed And you
Got fail? Mark,
are you consumed at how you
Doing? I wouldn't see that as
a fail mark.
What I think is we got very,
very high parti participation rates in our, um, census.
We did it very early on,
and it's great to have that pathway forward, which we're,
um, investing in ANU number of areas to make ourselves,
you know, the best public, best small public service agency.
There can be. I mean, we're investing in technology to deal
with the volume of submissions as Paula has outlined,
we're piloting and,
and one of the first actual agencies to work with
to Cori on their new framework. Uh,
Look, I'm concerned, um,
that you think you are doing things fine.
One of the ones that cropped up was your staff, the number
of staff who felt that the leaders in their agency,
that the people around this staple show a commitment
to strengthening the relationship between Maori
and the crown was 29%.
So that's less than one in three of your staff think
that your committed to Maori's town relations,
the public service average is 68%.
That's a woeful failure.
Um, and what you're telling me is, uh, we are doing okay,
given we are new.
I mean, I guess my question is, as the leader,
what are you doing about that question?
Your leadership and things Maori?
I'm, I'm supporting us, uh, working with Uni Ri uh,
being one of the early adopters
of the new framework, for example.
I mean, here's an interesting one.
Staff are supported to improve our tare Maori 13%
public service average 64%.
What do you, uh, uh, do you take re Maori lessons?
I have done in the past. I have,
I'm not currently taking them.
Uh, do you fund them for your staff?
I'll just hand over to Paula who can talk you through some
of the work that we're doing in that area. Mm.
Yes. We do fund classes for our staff. They are optional.
Um, and we offer those Maori classes to employees, um,
to attend either in person or via online, um, self-paced
Modules, depending on
What's going to work best for them.
So in terms of your, just my last question on this, Mr.
She, and then I'll hand over.
In terms of your, um, delivering
Crown Maori relations engagement training opportunities, um,
have you, are you happy that you have now done
that in accordance with your action plan,
which said it would be done by October, 2025?
So there's, yes, I am comfortable with that.
What we had is we recently had a day
where we did have the team from KO Korean,
and they got quite a lot of time with all of our employees
who attended on that day.
And that was a, everybody from the
administrative is, is that it?
No, I'm just saying that's one thing you were asking.
I said, I, are we comfortable? Yes.
Are we doing things? Yes, we are.
Thank you. Mr. Got okay. Okay. Oh, sub off. Yes. White.
Well, he is, he opened the door straight off the bed.
So I'll, I'll go for it. Um, good. I no, good you,
Um, Why, um, you know, I'm, I'm finding it hard
to understand the questions to the answers
that Dr. Webb has just asked,
because here's a question for you.
Why has there been no mention of Maori
in your annual review?
Um, it's very hard to track any of the, um, the answers
that you've given when it's, there's no mention of it in,
in this, um, in this particular briefing document.
Um, and so you, could you answer that question
just first of all, please.
I mean, the template that we've used
for the annual report is the one that's mandated
and we have fulfilled the requirements.
I'm really happy to look at it for next time.
I hadn't, uh, I hadn't picked that up.
A number of the, uh, things
that we've delivered have helped multiple people across the
economy and in the community, including, uh, Maori.
Can I ask, have there been any specific, um, directives to
repeal the main clauses and regulations that mentioned to t
No. Have
there been any specific directive
or re uh, repeals to amend clauses
and regulations that mentioned equitable outcomes?
No. So why has the Ministry
of Regulation not the subject of the baseline?
Can I ask you question? Why is the Ministry
of Regulations not the subject of baseline saving targets
that other ministries are required to meet?
We weren't last year, but we are this year. You
Are this year, yeah.
So in that case, um, what impact will the changes,
because I heard you mentioned early childhood,
which allows us to into that, what impacts will the changes
to the early childhood education sector have on ko?
Um, uh, our work didn't review that,
but there is a funding review
that's going on in early childhood education.
So that's more likely to directly
impact the question that you've asked
In specific KO,
Where the funding review,
we are not leading the funding review.
Ministry of Education are leading the funding review.
Um, but it's, so I'm not
quite, I don't know the details of the,
Is there any responsibility that the regulatory
Standards has in that particular space? In it?
Not at the moment, no. Not In early
childhood. Okay. Cool. Thank you.
Okay. Thank you. Dy, we're gonna go to Chloe Swap,
Uh, for the $2.1 million
that have been spent on consultancy and contractors.
How much of that was spent on consultancy
and contractors for the regulatory standards?
Bill?
I am not sure that we have
that breakdown, but we're happy to give it.
I mean, there, there was a high spend
of consultancy contractors at the start of the ministry.
'cause we didn't have a payroll. We were mainly
working, you know, to stand up.
Um, the percentage of spend on consultancy
and contractors has fallen dramatically since we stood up.
But very happy to see if we've got that analysis
and bring that back to the committee.
How much then did it cost
to pass the regulatory standards bill through?
We didn't, we didn't break out the figures
or the bill deliveries specifically from our
overall policy spend.
Um, there was a specific contract, uh, in relation
to supporting this committee with, um,
particularly submissions analysis.
Mm-hmm. Which we can have a specific figure on that,
but we don't break down the internal
policy spend around the bill.
Uh, we could probably have a go at at estimating some figure
if that's a request from the committee.
Mm-hmm. Um, that would be,
both those things would be good to,
Given it was only given it was only passed last month.
Perhaps you can consider that as a, as part
of your annual report next
Year. Well,
I mean, it still was partially intrain at the point
of the report, which again, is part of the reason
that I was referring
specifically to the breakdown of consult. Well, they could
Do it if it's, they could do it to write it
to the annual report they've provided.
Mm-hmm. The bulk
of those consultants consultancy costs in relation
to the work we did for the committee, uh,
will actually fall into this annual year.
'cause it, yeah.
Okay. Just take, So, uh, does the Ministry
for Regulation have an AI policy?
Uh, yes. We do have an AI policy.
How do you use ai, Paul? I can talk to that.
Sure. Um, yes, we do have a specific
policy and guidelines.
Um, we're using AI to make our work, uh, more efficient,
more innovative, and more informed.
And of course, our approach follows the Government Chief
Digital Officer's AI framework, um,
and the Minister for Digitizing Government's guidance on the
safe use of AI in the public sector.
Um, and her desire for agencies to embrace ai,
but to do that safely, um, and effectively.
Um, in addition to making digital tools available
to our people, we're also building digital skills across the
ministry so that staff can use those AI tools confidently
and very responsibly in their daily work.
Um, in terms of your question around
what things we're using AI for, um,
currently we are using it for, uh, reviewing
and summarizing documents, uh, gathering
and analyzing research, um,
some recording and transcription.
Um, we're using Microsoft Copilot Pro.
Um, we are do using that for the tagging, the theming
and the analysis of some submissions for our reviews, um,
development of reporting and dashboards.
And it's really important to point out that all of
that work is done within our own secure tenancy.
So it's not as if we are going out onto chat GPT
or anything of that nature. It's all within
The ministry. So
just to clarify on that point, all of
that intellectual property is owned
by the Ministry for Regulation.
You don't, there's no ownership of
that IP by any third parties?
No. Okay. Um, what criteria are there to escalate
or to process the, um, red tape
tip line complaints?
Um, actually, I'd probably call Paul to actually talk about
through, if that's all right.
So,
Um, Paul DC of review system capability, so the,
the red tape tip line, um, as going me
to earlier has been an incredible success in terms
of the volume of solutions that have come in.
So when they first come in, we, we triage them.
We kind of do a quick scan,
see is this a regulatory issue? Um,
Does AI do that or does a person do that?
No person doesn't do
That. Yeah. A person does
this completely.
Um, so we have to review it
to see is there really regulatory issue here?
A lot of the initial responses we got with people
who had issues, but they weren't regulatory issues,
but they weren't regulatory, they weren't regulatory issues.
They might have been, so, for example, a person gave us, uh,
they thought they was regulatory issue around the A, CC,
but it was actually more an entitlement issue,
and they didn't quite understand the regulations,
so we just got them in contact with
their proper people at a CC.
So we we're able to make those connections.
Um, so we review it, is there a regulatory issue here?
If yes, then we kind
of determine what's the size and scale of this issue.
Is this a one off? Does this
impact the number of New Zealanders?
What number of New Zealanders will, will this impact?
Then it goes off to a, we used to go off to a triage group,
a group of, um, I suppose you'd have legal experts,
economic experts, policy groups around the table.
And we'd assess the, each of the submissions that came in.
So there is the same, that was
warranted further investigation.
And then we'd, um, if so, then we'd, if not,
then we get contact with the, uh, the submitter
and we'd say, actually, you know,
we don't think there's anything here for
us to continue with.
If, so, we would go, we're gonna do an investigation.
We've done over 200 investigations since
we started the report.
Um, and that results in a number of different,
uh, potential outcomes.
One of those outcomes could be, um, we always get in contact
with the regulators, with the agencies,
with the policy agencies as well,
and go through a, a pretty robust process
to identify the size and scale of the problem.
And then obviously if there is a,
a primary legislative change required, then we engage
with the relevant, um, agency and go through a process.
And that takes time. So we've got a number
of issues at the moment that, um, haven't been through
that process, but we've got a, a, a long list of those
Things. Can I ask as
a follow up, uh, fast to also get access
to a flow chart of what
that process actually Sure looks like?
Sure. Yep. Uh, further to that point, I mean,
I'm hearing slightly not potentially contradictory,
so maybe you can help to elaborate on this.
Do you use AI at all through any of that process?
So with the initial, um, evaluation of, uh,
submissions when they come into the portal, we don't use ai.
Mm-hmm. Um, through the investigation process, we do use ai.
Um, there's a, an opportunity for us to use technology to,
um, identify is this with the regulations
that are impacted here, what legislation's involved?
And we can synthesize that information a lot
quicker than someone doing it manually.
Um, you'd be amazed. The complex,
you won't be amazed the complexity of some legislation.
Um, and, uh, AI does present us huge opportunities to speed
that process up, but we have a legal team involved as well,
so they kind of check that off, you know,
'cause some, we realize AI isn't always right.
Mm-hmm. Um, and so there's someone's,
is a person always involved assisting these things.
Nothing gets through
and it goes through a range of checks before it goes out the door.
Who's on the triage group?
Um, so triage, we have, um,
so we've actually just ceased the triage out was working.
Um, so triage, essentially, we have, uh,
chief legal officer was on there.
We had economist on there. We two policy professionals.
Um, we also have, uh,
an expert from our system capabilities team.
I sit on that group as well. Mm-hmm.
Um, and also the, the manager of the red tape tip line,
Do they have to explain their rationale
for why certain things are being rejected? And, um,
We have, we kind of have some high level criteria
that we kinda assess things against.
What are, what are those criteria
Specifically off the top of my head?
Um, so when we look at, one
of the key things is economic impact.
Yeah. So we look at what type of economic impact here,
and I said before, what number
of New Zealanders is this issue impacting?
Um, is this a one-off issue or is this, uh, a broader issue?
So we go through a range of kind of, you know,
sense checks like that to determine the size
and scale of the, the issue
to determine whether we wanna investigate it,
whether it warranted investigator. When
You're talking about economic impact, long term,
short term, are there any, um,
Well, all the above.
Um, so, so in terms of with economic impact,
so if we look at, um, well, if I pick an example, um,
so like an issue came through
around bike helmets, for example.
Mm-hmm. Um, and we could see that there was no real benefit
to actually removing the regulations around bike helmets.
Um, and the submission that came in was actually around,
is there any economic benefit for removing, um,
bike helmet regulations.
Mm-hmm. Um, so we look at a, a range of factors. Could there
Theoretically be an instance in which, uh, you were to,
or the Ministry of regulation were to recommend, uh,
increasing regulation?
If, if the point is efficiency, is the point solely
to reduce regulation,
or is the point efficiency of regulation?
Um, the thing is, um, regulation is there to prevent harm.
And that could be environmental harm,
it could be economic harm, it could be social harm.
And so we evaluate all of those things.
It's not just about deregulation.
It is about identifying, um,
the most appropriate proportionate regulation.
So we have had a number of cases where we have recommended
that there isn't deregulation.
So submitter, for example, uh, wrote to us
and asked us to, uh, relax rules and playgrounds.
And we recommended that those regulations did not change.
So, um, again, we look to see what is fit for purpose, um,
what's, what's good practice, uh,
what's got the right balance between, um, you know, all
of the competing factors, including safety. D
Has the ministry at all been involved in the, um,
publicly flagged, uh, review of health
and safety regulations?
Uh, no, we haven't.
Um, we have been involved in some workshops around
feedback from people who are impacted.
The feedback that we have been getting on that
is actually less about the regulation,
more about the application of regulation specific primary.
So it's, it's relatively,
and actually what we're finding is that's a recurring theme.
So what we'd say is probably half
of the feedback we're getting is not about the regulations
themselves, it's actually about the
application of the regulation.
And that's been more of the theme
of feedback we've received on. Okay.
Weve got three people down for subs here.
I'm gonna start with, um, Dr. Duncan Webb. Oh, uh, chair.
Thank you. Just returning to the tip line, um, I,
I'm curious, given, um, the ministry's focus on kind
of effective regulation, whether it is the best way
to locate and identify things for improvement.
Um, because look, I guess the first point is this, in
question 37 of the additional questions, you make it clear
that you don't measure how many EFTs you don't know
how many EFTs, um, are devoted
to this work. Is, is that accurate?
Well, so I think there's,
there's a couple things I would want
to really reinforce about the tip line.
So, 70% of the people who have contributed
to the tip line have said
that they have not contacted a government
agency about their problem.
So I do think that it's a very effective way
of giving some New Zealanders a voice
who haven't had a voice before.
And it's also a really effective way
of getting insight about things that are important to a part
of the population that may not have been feeding back to
Government. Is giving people a
route to complained about
government part of your role?
I think giving people a route to say what are the problems
that they have with regulation, how they're working for them
and against them is absolutely part of our role.
So, back to my original question.
Do you know how much it costs to run the tip line?
So what, we're a small agency. Okay.
And what we are doing is a number
of our staff work across the many issues that that arise.
Um, so we're flexible about our resources.
So sometimes we get a spike in volume in the red tip tip
plan, and we would allocate some more staff to that.
Sometimes we get a spike in volume in agencies asking us
to help us with their regulatory capability or strategy.
And we would allocate resources.
So we're agile in the way that we allocate the
Resources. Do you know how much it
costs to run the red tape to apply?
Uh, uh, what we do know is we know the cost that it, it is
to run all of the ministry.
And we know the teams that are allocated in three buckets
of areas, which is the policy, the regulatory reviews
and capabilities, and then the support.
Do you know how much it costs to run red tape tip line?
Okay. Final. Well, no, look, oh, no, it can ask this.
It's not my fault. It won't answer the question,
but she's answering the question as No.
Okay. Well, let me, let me continue then,
because the answer's no.
And in the, in the, you've had, uh, as at June
you'd had something like 794 submissions,
um, and 150 something, I think
investigations 159 investigations.
And you've had four changes made
to regulation on the back of that.
Is it value for money to have 700 submissions,
159 investigations,
and the sum total of actions to be for?
So I think it is absolutely value for money.
Um, and I just want to quote, how
Can you tell if you can't tell us how much it
costs? Well, just
For the answer, the, the total cost
of the ministry is less than $20 million.
How much for the, okay.
So half a million caregivers in New Zealand, a woman,
and this is a quote from her, she said,
I've been fighting this issue for the last four years.
She said, I have been heard many times,
but action towards tangible change hasn't come
with it until now.
You don't know what means. Is
This the, the, is this the lift on the cap
for public service audits?
No, this is a lift on the cap for the financial reporting
for caregivers are
Managing with, sorry, public trust audits,
Managing their, uh, loved ones assets.
Yeah. It's just one example. So I do think it is
That money, how many, how many audits, how many audits
by the public trust are no longer needed from one October
as a result of that change.
So we will, we will work
with the public trust to get those numbers. So yeah.
So you don't know that either.
Okay. We're gonna go to Dr. Deborah Russell.
Oh, thank you. So I'm gonna help you out here.
How much, um, uh, does the tip line cross ones?
Let's start with the phone number that you've
Got right now. Okay. So can
I just, sorry, but like, we've been very clear.
We've given you our accounts.
Now what we can do is we can, we can respond
to New Zealanders and we can invest the time
and energy in responding
to New Zealanders and making changes.
Or I can get everybody out with a clipboard
to allocate their time to the last 30 seconds.
I was gonna help you. That is not what we're planning to do.
So we're looking for back of the envelope here.
So around about how much does it cost to run?
Is a telephone line is a door? No,
It's not an online Portal site. What is it?
It's an online portal. And so
how much did it cost to set that portal up?
Not very much. That's not an answer.
Well, I can come back to you with that answer. Good. If
You could. Okay. She's committed
to that.
So you said you have a number of staff,
you have people triaging Yep.
The tips that come in.
So how many people would be looking at
that every day or on a regular basis?
As I said, it's varied. It's varied.
Depending on the volume that comes.
Well, someone has to, comes, out, comes, yeah.
And it depends. And actually some days we have meetings
where we don't meet about the tip line.
We gather all the tips up, and then we'll do it midweek.
We might do it if we get a lot,
when we had the garden sheds, we had
to meet a couple of times a day.
Oh, sure. Totally. It all varies. So
Do we think it maybe might be about half an FTEA week
or maybe one FTEA week?
Or maybe it's No,
We, we aren't, we aren't in the, the business
of hypotheticals.
We're in the business of making
a difference to New Zealand. But
You are, I'm sorry.
This is just wrong of you to come in claiming
that it's a value for money
and then not to be able to tell us what it costs
or even to give us an estimate of what it costs.
So I very much want that as a follow up question.
Someone, some accountant, I could sit down
with your accounts if I had access to them
and come up with an estimate.
And I'm gobs snake that you would come in here,
tell us it's value for money,
and then not be able to tell us how costs.
Okay. Okay. Well, she's given a commitment
to some follow up information.
Um, other supplements. Right.
We Got on this, Well,
we've got people lined up for subs,
including Dr. David Wilson.
Mm. It better be a sub. 'cause I do
Have a sub, this is a sub on the tip.
We're talking tip lines that we just had.
I'll come back to what we were actually talking about
in terms of regulatory impact analysis. And no,
That's not point to Mr.
We rule that out. This is,
we're giving the tip line a lot of publicity here.
I'll try for Todd and come back to you, David. Okay.
Um, thank you.
And, um, you covered at the start, obviously it's,
you had a large volume, um, to the tip line.
Yep. Uh, I also thought it was actually quite telling in
your opening slides, the complexity of government.
And I think also you referred to the fact that
actually people have trouble actually contacting someone in
government that can,
they can even vent their frustration with. And, um, I
Call members of Parliament.
No. Well, that's a problem.
I think a lot of members of parliament don't respond
to their emails, but We'll, we'll leave that aside.
Yeah. I just wanna get your comments on Yeah.
How much, uh, volume actually are you seeing
of just people like finally we've got somewhere
that we can go 794.
Okay. And also just the questions aren't across the table.
And is this aligned, uh, on page six
of your annual report too, which I really like the diagram.
We actually have New Zealanders at the center.
Um, and so do you very much see you actually as an agency
that wants to respond to New Zealanders
and actually try and deal with their issues?
And is that part of the reason you've had
so many? It's aligned. It's
Just bizarre That actually it, the tip line
that has been, again, a really,
we have actually really enjoyed the tip line.
We've loved it. It's been far more successful
than we expected it to be.
Okay. Yeah. 70% of the people who raised tips with us say
that they have not raised them before.
And actually 80%
of the tips are raised are actually from individuals.
They're not from businesses. Yeah.
So I'm really proud of the fact that actually kind
of New Zealanders are coming
to us about the issues that matter to them.
And I think it gives government,
and it gives the public service a different lens
because actually, you know, what is important to one person
may not be, you know, saving millions of dollars
and be, you know, the, the nub of the economy.
But to that person it is.
And 90, 90 plus percent of New Zealand is small businesses.
Um, and, you know, we're really pleased
that they have also been engaging with us
and they're getting a voice
and feeling that they're being listened to.
Um, and look, at the end of the day, if we're not here
to make a difference, um, that's
what we focus on all the time, making a difference.
Um, and that's part of the triage process.
What difference can this make?
And sometimes it's not the economic value,
sometimes it is the regulatory burden relief.
Um, that actually just means that people can
spend their time doing other things.
I mean, we had a, we actually did have a one year
celebration, and actually Paul's daughter made a cake
for the red tape tip line one year on,
and of course it had red, red tape around it. How
Much of the cake cost Exactly.
His daughter made it. So, very good.
Anyway, but no, I do, I do wanna,
I do wanna share one little story
because a member of staff came forward
and said actually that the changes
that we had made in the conjunction with the Ministry
of Justice around wells.
So probate had actually directly,
positively impacted her when her grandmother had died.
Still gotta stop. So have a problem.
Okay. Just, just for, um,
as a public service announcement, given,
we're talking a lot about this tip line.
Just give it to us again, how people can access
it just quickly.
So you just go onto our website
and you'll find a button
that says Report a Red Tip Michigan. Okay.
That easy. Okay. Uh, Dr. Deb, uh, Dr. Megan Woods,
Uh, thank you Ms. Moss.
And I do note this is the first time
that your agency has been
before this committee for scrutiny.
It is the job of this committee
to scrutinize public spending.
Um, we're not asking you to go around with the clipboard,
um, but it is our job to examine how spending is being,
being allocated across an agency
and what results New Zealanders are getting.
So a supplementary to my colleague, Dr. Duncan Webb,
and his question around the, the cost of the tip line.
You can't tell us how much running the tip line costs.
So my questions, my supplementary questions are around
what systems do you have in place within your ministry
to track spending if you are unable to tell this committee
how much running the tip line costs?
Because quite frankly, that is
concerning if your agency lacks those systems.
So actually our agency is very good systems
for tracking costing and, and our, no,
but I mean, that's been externally validated by the auditors
who, um, gave us a two very goods
and a good, uh, in our, uh, audit ratings.
And that's relatively unusual across the public service.
And what they did say to us, they were very pleased given,
uh, that we are a relatively new organization.
So they find our systems, um, very strong.
And that's what they've publicly reported. Well,
What I can say is that
what is unusual across the public service is
for a chief executive to come to this committee
and not be able to tell us something is simple, is
how much running a service cost. So
Given you has committed, given additional,
Given very goods, we
Look forward, um, to you showing us
how good those tracking systems are
and receiving that information.
Supplementary, She's committed to that.
Uh, Mr. Stevenson? Well,
Yeah. If we go to page
two of the letter from the auditor
general's office, um, can you just confirm what they said
around management control environment,
financial systems and controls?
No, we don't need, Hmm.
So they give us, it's un good. This
Is a public letter to the minister.
It's not the auditor. General advice to us public
Letter to the minister. Okay.
That's all right. The, that's fine. No, it's fine.
Okay. We are ready for a primary.
Okay. Well just, can you just confirm what,
Uh, the audit, the,
and I apologize probably is my best wording. The audit.
Okay. Let's, let's, um, but you've
Got very good, I got all audit New Zealand.
Give us two. Very good.
And again. Okay. Oh good. Thank you Mr. Stevenson.
If we can go to, uh, the honorable Dr. Deborah Russell,
we'll get back onto primaries. I not primaries
Chair. Um, Ms. Mos,
uh, you referred to the diagram on pages four
and five, um, of your, um, report.
So that's the complex system of regulation.
We have that diagram up on the screen again
and is it possible get that up on the screen again?
Thanks, Liam. So it's a, it's a really interesting one
'cause you've, um, and I do
wanna get to the next one as well.
You've, um, who designed this table?
Uh, so, uh, this work is primarily, uh,
the parliamentary council office who we work closely with.
Right, okay. So they're the owners of the primary
Legislation. There's a
particular choice in this, which is to, um, say
that regulation is defined by which ministry controls them.
Uh, no, no, wait.
That it's not saying it's not defined that way.
That's just the way that they chose to group it.
That's still a choice. Yeah, it's still a choice way to
Demonstr. So it's, it's really
interesting
because then if we go to the next slide, please.
Thanks, Liam. Now this is utterly meaningless.
Not only can we not see it, um,
because, you know, I'm not dunno about you,
but I can't read that.
Oh, a little bit. If I go over there, um,
and again, I think it's done by government agency. Is it
How it's, it's it's, it's partly lost. No,
No, no. It's grouped by pilot,
by government
Agency. It, we,
it's been, they've attempted to group it
by government agency. Yep,
Yep. So that's a choice
as well.
And I wanted purports to show is
that regulation is incredibly complex,
but there are alternative ways
that this could have been displayed this information.
Would you want to suggest that because
Yeah, you could have done it by business sector
or by small business,
or you could have done it by function rather than by agency.
Yep. And that's right. You could have done,
Could come here. So how is
this meaningful? Like how,
how does the previous one actually add any meaningful
content to the annual report? Well,
I think what it does is it provides a context
and some facts and figures around the number of pieces
of primary legislation who the home agency are
that are responsible for that primary legislation.
So I don't see facts and figures on this.
I see a series of dots
and circles, which are not very clear at all.
It's created by some facts.
So I'd be very happy to send you the underlying
data for that. That
Would be great. It'd be great
to get those facts.
How does the amount of regulation in New Zealand compare
to the amount of regulation in other countries?
Um, what we do see is it varies, um,
and also varies by sector.
Um, then the other issue
that we've got is that what we do see,
So that was a straightforward question,
wasn't whether it's, it,
It's, it's there's horses for courses.
So I I mean you can't do just a general comment
around every country in world.
Well figure is that when we get feedback on the things
like the ease of setting up a business in New Zealand, um,
it's very, very straightforward in this
country can happen quite quickly.
We get, um, feedback on the, um, amount of time
that people can spend complying with tax law
as actually less than it is in other countries.
It actually does very, very well.
Um, and uh, other countries, uh, when we look at, um,
regulatory burden, the various surveys we get show
that New Zealand actually does very well on that context.
Yet this sort of table
and that picture there almost seemed
to show that it's an utter mess.
I can't make those two things add up.
Well what we would say is that it does appear
to be very complex and based on the feedback that we've had
through all of our regulatory reviews
and also our red tape tip line.
And that's not the message we're hearing
from the New Zealand public.
But that's easy to do business
and that life is pretty simple
and clear when it comes to the rules and regulations.
So that's very anecdotal. So, but when we actually out
Of time, well I think 14, 1400 tips, um,
four regulatory reviews
with very significant stakeholders. Well,
It's complain line there hardly could go.
Hang on. Just on, hang on.
Just let, just can we have some common courtesy to our,
I'm gonna train economics
Here please. I'm gonna trading
economics here
and they rank the ease of doing business in New Zealand.
Would you like to hazard a guess?
Where New Zealand rank is this
In the annual report? Okay,
where is this? Would you like relevance at all?
I'm, give me a moment please.
Would you like to hazard a guess as to
where New Zealand sits on the table, um, of the ease
of doing business in New Zealand amongst the, you know, 200
or so economies in the world? Listen,
We're not playing a pop quiz here, are we?
But I'd just like to do, would you like to, well
Tell us, Shall I tell you, you,
You tell us, we Rank number one in terms of the ease
of doing business, yet you've presented a picture here
of extraordinary complexity.
Well, I cannot make those.
Okay. Please define the ease
of doing business then. That's
Fine. What's the point? What's
The ease of doing business, Mr.
Chair. Chair? Okay.
Dr. Russell, we have you got any Dr. Russell is gonna make,
she has to define what the ease of doing business is.
Well, I don't know, but I am, well here we go.
And we've got another sub Russell, according
to the latest World Bank annual rating.
Okay. So outline what the ease of doing. Okay.
Have we got another sub rank number one in rank one
among 190 economies.
Okay. We've got a point of order. Point of order.
Latest World Bank point of order,
Uh, chair, this is an annual review hearing
and we're going on to all this stuff about stuff
that's actually not related to the 12 month
Period in the account.
This is extraordinarily
complex picture in the annual report.
I think he's misleading.
You've made that point in terms of Okay.
That point been made. Yeah, that point's been made.
Anything else? Uh, Dr. Russell do Okay, thank you. Primer.
Right. Okay. We're gonna go to Ryan Hamilton.
Thank you chair. Um, really appreciate this.
Now, um, to this the, uh,
I do apologize. I want get your name,
Ronya Rams with Sonia.
That's a good way of remembering it.
Well That's good to know. Thank you.
No, I do appreciate that. And I personally enjoy the diagram
because it explains the complexity of Yes me too.
Government and regulation to the lay person.
Um, my question is actually around,
and you put it in your annual report on 22,
you've done a case study of making things better for family.
And I think you alluded to it in your opening remarks about
one of the more pleasant things
that the agency's done in the last 12 months.
I was wondering if you could expand on what was the problem
and the problem definition
and the solution that we've now achieved.
Yeah. Um, so on that, I mean the submitter, uh,
came forward to our tip line
and just said that they felt that, you know,
they'd had a loved one pass away
and that they had an awful lot of paperwork to do
and that they thought that the kind appropriate threshold
appeared to be disproportionate to the amount of money
that was left in the estate.
So we worked with, um, the Ministry of Justice
and looked at the current settings
and found that they were indeed, uh, disproportional
and um, out of date.
So the burden, regulatory burden was being placed at, um,
a finance number that was just too low.
And we've worked with the Ministry
of Justice to increase that.
So the regulations themselves are staying the same.
It's about the implementation of the regulation
and when it proportionately applies.
Yeah. So, um, and you know, I, again, I've shared the story,
but actually one of our staff came
and said that that actually had ended up helping
one of their family members.
Right. And just a follow up from that, in terms
of the recommendations that you put through,
is there a proportion or a trend line so far
that's been secondary legislation
that a minister can do by order and council?
Or has there been some that's triggered Primary
legislation changes?
So it ha it has been a range.
So some of it has been primary legislation, some
of it has been secondary, some as you say,
things like order and council.
Um, the other pieces that we've had is we've found
that sometimes actually the guidance, um,
that has been issued by people has, um, been adopted almost
as a secondary regulation and then is not clear.
So actually if we look at the changes to the, um,
anti-money laundering gift cards, um, we actually were able
to make that change through, um,
a guidance change issued by DIA.
So what we do look at is what are the avenues,
and that's part of the, the triage process
as well and the investigation.
If it needs change, then what are the avenues for change?
And we try to use all of the options that are available.
Thanks, chair. And just for the supplement,
because I know we're in a scrutiny period of review,
but are that, you know, in that period starting
to be any emerging nutrients
that you think are low hanging fruit,
either secondary or primary? Um,
I think there is quite a few, um,
that are coming through our system.
I mean there's a lot of, however, I do want to acknowledge
that the government is doing work across a number
of regulatory systems that we work alongside other agencies.
So, um, I mean one of the big ones we get is around the,
the building, uh, consent.
So, you know, I think the garden sheds change is probably in
next year's annual review
and we've worked to change some of the scaffolding guidance
as well, which would help ho um, um, builders.
Um, we're working on far egress and things like that.
So we do see some themes coming out
and there is quite a lot around the building
and consenting process consent. Mm-hmm.
Thank you. Okay. I have a stop there from Nancy.
Um, thank you chair.
Um, my supplement question is from your last
over a year of work in the ministry, what are some
of the learning points that will um,
I think set you on a bit track in the next year?
Okay. For better fit? She seen better productivity.
And just by the way, very subjectively, I'm a big fan
of diagrams and,
and brows, so I really like to diagram. Thank you.
Look, I mean, I do want to, um, you know, say
to the committee, there is absolutely learnings from
the, from the last year.
There's things that, that we can, uh,
do better and more efficiently.
I think when we set up the red tip tip line,
I know we keep coming back to that, we had no idea
how successful it would be.
Um, what we have done is made that much more structured
and actually been more proactive about the questions
that we're asking New Zealanders.
So that is actually helping reduce the time
and, uh, to actually go through all the tips.
Um, I think our regulatory reviews, um,
I mean I think there's a couple of things
that we've done really well there.
One of the things that we did is all of the terms
of reference were actually put out for consultation be
before the work started.
And I think that meant that you had a, a more holistic view
of what the problem was from both regulated parties
and regulators and for example, CE parents.
And, um, so I think that was, that was a real strength.
Um, but again, you know, the volume that we got back,
we probably were, um, slightly surprised at.
Um, I think we also took an awful lot of care
to get back to submitters
and we weren't maybe as efficient on that.
We spent a lot of time talking to people.
I think we've been a bit more up upfront about asking
proactive questions about nailing in on
what the problem definition is.
Um, I dunno.
Paul, what other learnings do you think we've had?
I think one of the key learnings from the the tip line is
while a lot of the issues have been
around the Resource Management Act, the Building Act,
anti-money laundering, um, if you step back, about 45%
of them, uh, the local government is actually the regulator.
And so there's a real opportunity for us to actually,
how do we build the capability, help build the capability
of, um, local government.
And so one of our other teams,
our system capability team have a range
of initiatives underway to actually
build regulator capability.
Um, in terms of the regulatory practice.
'cause actually I'd say half the issues
that we identify aren't primary ledge
or secondary ledge is actually regulatory practice.
That's, that's, that's where the issue is.
There's real opportunities for us
to actually have meaningful impact in that space.
And so the system capability team have a a key role to play,
um, over the many years to come, um, with regards
to actually building that capability.
And we've got, we've started up an initiative called
rigoring, um, which has a range of quick user guides, um,
that people can easily pick up and use.
We've had 5,000 downloads of those,
um, since that went live.
Um, we have some modules on there that, uh, for regulators
to actually help, um, with their, with their training.
And that's being implemented by the, um, CAA dock
and someone else has customs,
custom customs have actually built it into their, um,
their training, their training schedules.
Um, and that's been, I think we've had about just 1400
of those module completed.
And if someone was to go out
and go through a professional organization
to have those done, that's probably a $600 kind
of little cost to do.
So they're straightaway is a million dollars.
We've saved the public service. 'cause all
of those regulators are actually
funded through local government.
And so there's huge opportunities in that space as well.
So that's some of the key things we're seeing there.
I I, I just actually would like to augment
that point from, um, from Paul.
And again, um,
and some of you might be, um, old enough to remember this,
but back in the eighties there was a song by Banana Ram
and Funboy Funboy three called it in
what you Do, it's the way that you do it.
Um, and what we have found is the feedback
we are quoting Banana Orama.
Yeah. The feed. Well, yeah.
The feedback that we're getting from
regulated parties is often
about, it's the way that it's done.
Um, and that actually is as important
as the regulation itself.
Um, and probably what that does mean for us is, uh,
really focusing, um, how we can improve that area.
That's probably an area
that we hadn't maybe focused on enough in very
early days of the ministry. Okay.
Well, banana Rama has debuted at scrutiny week.
Yeah, we're gonna go to Dr. Dr. Duncan
Week. Um, look, thanks.
I wanna talk a little bit about performance reporting with,
um, reference to a particular example.
But one of the things that I've heard a number of times,
and I just think it's worth clarifying, is,
and you do it in your PRS as well, is that you say,
we did this and we stopped that, or we changed this.
Um, for, for clarity, you're just an advisory agency
and it's the agencies themselves, justice, for example,
we changed their probate rules.
Quite a good change. You advise them around that,
but they made the change, didn't they?
Well, I think you also need the support of ministers
to make the changes as well.
So is it a team effort? Absolutely.
Uh, we work alongside other government agencies
and also ministers
and yeah, you have to gain support from elsewhere
for your recommendations.
Yeah, I mean, you recently put out a pr you know,
and I follow on LinkedIn
and so on, um, very active saying that, um,
you've achieved up to, in fact, you referred
to it in your opening up to $337 million in benefits.
And I did have a look around
and try to look behind that on your website.
I couldn't actually find any analysis around that. Um,
We'll be very happy to talk through it. The, um, so
Yeah, well, no, no, no. I just want
to, I, I mean I I, I'm,
I'm sure there's analysis behind it somewhere and,
but I think the time for that, I'll ask for that later.
Um, we'll, we'll get that.
But if we look at, for example, my favorite topic, um,
which is flower dust standards, um,
where you say you stop unworkable new limits.
So that's the one where MV were consulting on
change and you had input.
In fact, consultation is that's what happened, isn't it?
There were a number of conversations
that we were involved in that led
to a pause being placed on the changes.
Yeah. And so how can you claim which you
do that you, you saved up to you, you know, you saved,
you stopped it and you saved up to 18 million, uh, in costs
for bakeries when all you did was consult
with mb and I've seen, I've got your dogs, uh,
and have an exchange around it and then not make the change.
How, how is that a aver when they,
when there was no certainty the change
was gonna be made anyway.
So I mean, at the end of the day,
we did make an intervention that changed the outcome
that was potentially proposed. So, yeah,
Well they, well that first of all, um,
you had an input into a consultation about that way that
what they were considering.
Secondly, they're still considering it aren't they?
What they are considering is much broader than just
that they're actually looking at what I understand,
and I really apologize, I can't remember off the top
of my head, but there's, uh, what it stands for.
But those w standards, I think they're taking the step back
and looking at them in totality across a number
of sectors and industries.
And I must say I was a wee bit concerned about accuracy in
your PR when you said we meet with industry stakeholders
and WorkSafe and research international standards in
Australia, the UK and the us
and our analysis showed the proposed standard
was misaligned.
By misaligned did you mean New Zealand standards
had far more flour in the air than Australia
and the us Is that
what you mean? Because that's what it's No,
The proposed new standard was misaligned
to other international jurisdictions.
Well, our current standard is double that
of Australia in five times out of Canada,
which your own documents show.
Yeah. And we were looking at the proposed new standard,
which would've been 0.2.
Um, when I think Australia's 0.5, if I remember
Correctly. Yeah. And Canada is
0.2.
I I just find that actually quite misleading.
And can I, when you say you saved whatever, the 18 million,
um, and the NB website identifies this,
how did you factor in lung disease, asthma
and respiratory disease into your costings?
So, um, what might be really helpful
for the committee at some point is I would actually think
it'd be helpful for the committee
to hear from Kevin Council, our chief economist to actually,
um, develop, uh, the analysis that's behind all
of the numbers that are not just linked to that,
but also to the other regulatory changes we've made.
Uh, we've also had that work peer reviewed by MOTU who's
So, but we did have, we did have, we currently have
a flower dust standard, which is double that in Australia,
uh, double that in the US
and five times that of Canada MBS guidance says it
that too much flower dust causes lung disease.
Can you just tell me that in terms of your cost
and your benefits, you included negative health outcome?
I'd be very happy to let the chief economist take you
through how we've approached and what the process has been,
and then the peer review for all of the work
that we have done that has been published.
But, um, and those numbers,
But you can't answer that question at the moment.
Well, what I'm saying is I'm really happy
to hand over to somebody else. Well,
It is, that's given there, isn't it?
Yeah.
Okay. Thank you, sir. Yeah.
Hi, I'm Kevin, council Chief Economist.
So to answer your question specifically, yes.
We looked at the costs, um, based on, uh, changes in, um,
occupational asthma that might come from the change
between the factual and counterfactual analysis
and our cost benefit analysis.
Right. So there's a negative number By not changing it,
We could in, uh, and the, with the data we had available,
we weren't able to quant put a quantity on that.
But what we do and what is common in cost benefit analysis
is to use, um, quantitative monetary measures where you can,
and to make, um, other pieces of analysis
where you can't quantify things transparent
and report those.
Right. So when you've got a PR
that says 18 million health benefits aren't ca
or dis benefits aren't captured in the
18, health benefits are captured in the,
in the under underlying analysis for that.
Right. But not, yeah.
And you've had that, um, peer reviewed by Yeah.
And can we see that peer review?
Yes, I We will. I'm sure we'd be very happy.
We'll just check with them that they're happy to,
It's, it's your, it's, it's a government.
I, I, I'm, I'm just the principal's there.
I just don't want to commit to something.
And then moto say, actually we wanted
to do something government that's all
Just supplementary. Yep.
On this, if it,
if mb if the changes MB were consulting on and proposed it.
Go ahead. What was the issue?
Well, there were two issues.
Um, one, there was going
to be a quite a significant increase.
What time did we go to? So two issues.
One was actually that there isn't the technology
to actually, uh, monitor that level of compliance.
Yeah. So that was, that was one issue.
And the second issue was, um, a poten an increased cost
that would be passed on to consumers.
And was the cost benefit worth it? Yeah.
Thank you. Okay. Did you have some? Yes. Thank you.
Thank you chair. Um, I just have a quick question
around the cost benefit analysis.
Um, leading on from, uh, Dr.
Webb's questioning, I just wanted to check.
The website has, uh, essentially a table of figures
and there's also a media release around it.
Has, there has the document behind the,
the actual cost benefit analysis
or the spreadsheets behind it been released yet?
They haven't been released, but we have them so available.
Yeah. Yeah. I think it'd be good if maybe actually Mr.
Council actually talked you through some of that.
It's great to see the interest in it, some of the approach.
Yeah. So the approach underlying all of
that quantification is cost benefit analysis.
The, the economic methodology, which is an analytical tool.
Yes. Um, we are looking at, um, identifying
and monetizing where possible or costs and benefits.
And by that, um, just to be clear,
it's not just financial costs and benefits.
So that is anything that goes towards the welfare
or wellbeing of New Zealanders.
So we incorporate health costs
or health benefits, environmental costs,
environmental benefits, any of those sort
of non-monetary factors.
And economics has really robust tools
that have come from the peer reviewed literature, um,
for which there are international standards
and which are widely used by agencies overseas
for quantifying those sort of things.
So where we can, we do that
and we incorporate that into our analysis.
Yeah. Um, so the approach generally is to, um,
analyze impacts in terms of things like market failures,
terms of information asymmetries, competition problems,
environmental externalities, um,
any of those sort of things.
We look for costs in terms of both compliance costs, um,
administration costs in terms
of like government departments costs in terms of distortions
to markets or, um, distortions to competition innovation.
And we try to monetize those, um,
and capture them in an, in an overall metric, um,
using standard kind of economic tools and methodologies.
The analysis on the website, um,
has then taken over 10 years.
So we use a, a 10 year timeframe, um,
because to get a bit beyond that, um,
starts becoming a lot more uncertain.
Um, but to look at some sort of impact beyond a year,
we need to, we need to use a reasonable kind of balance
of timeframe, and we do things in net present value terms.
Um, so that's taking a discount rate.
We use treasuries, standard discount rates, um,
that they publish, um,
and to reflect the time value of money,
we discount everything, um, back to present value terms,
so everything's put in present value terms.
Um, and we then we undertake a number of other things
that are past part of cost benefit analysis,
sensitivity testing, or things like Monte Carlo analysis to,
to address uncertainty, um,
and capture that in the overall analysis as well. Yeah.
But why hasn't the, um, underlying
Document then Been released with the table?
Uh, I mean, we'd be very happy to look at that.
It wasn't, I mean, we,
what we can put on our website what's user friendly,
but if you would like it, I'm sure just, uh, we'll take that
as a, a request and we'll come back to you. Yeah.
Okay. Thank You. We're gonna go to a primary
from Dr. David Wilson.
Yeah. It's almost a supplementary now after
however long we waited. As long as it's
Not on the tip line, It's not.
Start that one. Let,
let's exclude the tip line from this question.
Um, on regulatory impact analysis, um,
your focus is on improving the way agencies can
assess the impacts of regulations.
Yeah. That's great. And you've also said
that impact statements are only produced where needed.
So you know, as a group here, we get riss all the time. Yep.
Uh, we get other help in terms of what the costs
of things may be and how they're related
to other pieces of legislation.
Very pleased to hear that you're using quite sophisticated
benefit cost analysis and also economic impact
and financial modeling and so on and so forth.
So my question's really this,
because that actually gives me some additionality around
what your agency is doing to what we would normally get.
What are the other things excluding the tip line?
Well, I think, uh, some of the other things are, um,
the ability to regulators
and regulated parties in terms of that training development
that Paul talked about, that is definite additionality.
Those, those, for example,
the reg room did not exist before.
Those quick guides did not exist before,
and we've had international recognition
and the quality of that work.
Um, so that's, that's additional.
The other piece that goes alongside that is,
is we've had over 20 requests to either meet with boards,
um, or agencies in terms
of talking about their regulatory strategy capability,
where they think their weaknesses are what they need
to be doing to get better.
That's additional. Uh, there wasn't somebody sitting
who had a view of the system who was able
to provide that advice.
I think then the other additionality is the
actual sector reviews.
Um, so those sector reviews, um, that,
that we've undertaken.
So we've completed three, we have, uh,
three ongoing at the minute.
Um, that gives an opportunity for an independent agency,
um, to listen to all of the, the different perspectives,
look at the data, look at the facts
and analyze things, look internationally, apply, uh, models
as appropriate and provide, um,
independent recommendations for improvement.
Um, and you know, what we have found is
that those improvements have started to flow through.
So if, if we look at, um, the agricultural
and horticultural, I mean, what we've seen from, um, MPI,
and yes, we accept that we worked with MPI,
but MPI, I think would tell you
that they worked really well with us.
And, um, a lot of the facts
and figures that we brought to them, a lot of the,
the context that we brought has,
and the action plan that we've brought has brought a,
a reduction, um, in the application queue, um,
of 30% since we did the regulatory review.
Um, I think those things are additional,
we're making changes and we're helping people prioritize,
but see a way forward.
Quick supplementary chair.
So if, if we were to look at something along the line
of regulation around health and safety,
and we ran some rulers over this in terms of BCA, um,
financial modeling cost to the economy,
and we're trying to achieve a balance between safety
and allowing increased productivity, do you think
what you would provide would give us a clearer
answer to that question?
Um, I think, um, we would be able to, with this tools
and skills we've got now, yeah.
Provide a, a, a perspective on data
and information that could be considered.
I think, however, on thats the notes
of other people providing data and information as well.
Okay. Thank you Dr. Wilson. Uh, Dr. Rus.
Oh, um, thank you. I'm interested in your various case
studies and one we haven't talked about yet is the, um,
the medical conferences.
Um, and, uh, you claim that
two of the largest medical conferences have confirmed
they're coming to New Zealand in 2026.
Is that directly because of the change you made?
Uh, that's what we've been told, yes.
Because they previously would not have committed to coming
to New Zealand because they wouldn't be able
to undertake the, uh, work that they wanted to do.
So who told you that? Um,
so the actual conference organizers, um,
let business New Zealand know who informed us.
And actually they put out a press release
as well. They, uh, that was
Business New Zealand? No,
The conference organizers put out a press release
and then it, they indicated the number of people
that would be coming as well.
So that's come directly from them.
Right. So it was specifically the change that you made
that meant the conferences came here and nothing else?
Oh, well, that's what, that's
what we've been told in terms of our, uh, the,
the information that we've received. Okay.
Thank you. That's really good to know.
You say it's worth, um, it's stopping millions of dollars
of medical conferences and events in New Zealand.
Did you do a quantification of the, um,
A quantification was actually done by,
uh, a net Yeah. Business events company?
Yeah. BEIA, I can't recall what it stands for.
Yeah, we also did our quantification.
It's on, it's on the website.
Right. Okay.
And with that, the information come to you from, in order
to get that changed through in the first place, uh,
That information came Business New Zealand.
So it wasn't from the tip line?
Uh, no, it wasn't from the tip line. Tip
Line, no. Okay. Well,
I don't know.
I mean, you know, there's,
there's no, there's no wrong door.
Everything's a tip, so, you know, no wrong door.
So it actually came in an email direct me.
Right. Okay. So there's actually various ways
that information could get to in terms of doing something.
So in terms of the various, um, uh,
However, the, the red tip tip line team are
the people that work that up.
So yes, I passed that onto them. Internal
Tip, we've just said there's a red tape tip line team.
Mm. Well, there's a ministry team.
There are some investigators
that work on the red tip tip line,
but what I said earlier was that that,
uh, has peaks and trs.
Right. Okay.
So in terms of the case studies in your, um,
your annual report for, I presume things you are proud of,
um, how many of those came through the tip line?
So the case studies in the annual report? So then no.
So the medical conferences that was worked on
by Paul's team on, um, the, the team that looks at those,
um, let's see, what else is in the annual report.
Um, gift cards was worked on by that team.
Medical conferences, Florida by now,
pay later was actually jointly worked on
by the policy team. And, um, but
I asked you how many of them came
through the tip line as things to work on.
So I was trying to answer that in terms of, um,
all a number of these have been through the tip line
in terms of the, that's
Where your first attention was first drawn to them. I
Would have to go back and check that. Um,
Okay.
Okay. Yeah. Alright.
So it's, it's just, you know, these presumably things you're
proud, so it's interesting to know how,
how much they are coming through the tip line
or whether they're coming from different sources.
So the vast majority
of things are coming directly into us as a ministry.
Yeah. So rather
Than through the tip line, Well, you can come
through the tip line or, or for example,
in the medical conferences that came direct to me
and I passed it on to our tip line team,
So well, yeah.
So what I'm trying to work out is, you know,
there's a number of things you've worked on, um,
and you say you're getting evidence around,
but you know, there's obviously a number of ways that
stuff comes to your attention.
Yep. What, in terms
of the things you've actually done work on, it would be good
to know which of those were things that came through other,
other sources, or like you said,
directly from Business New Zealand, I think was the previous
one, or how many of them were directly kicked off because
Of something coming in through your tip line?
Okay. Yeah. Thank you.
Okay. We, we've got two more primaries.
We've got Dr. Megan Woods. Dr. Duncan
Webb. Thank you. Um,
and my question is, uh, a more technical one
and it compares you to other central agency.
So what we see is most other central agencies within
government use a disaggregated
or multi-category, um, appropriation, um,
rather than the single broad output, um, that you do.
Um, and I guess this ties into the questioning
that we had earlier in the committee around
what funding was allocated to different functions.
Because what those multi-category appropriations do allow
those other agencies to do is to show
how different work streams, um, what funding's going
to them, how they contribute to the core purpose,
but importantly allows parliament IE this committee
to test the performance of that expenditure.
And that is the purpose of what we are doing.
So I guess, given
that your ministry has several distinct roles,
you've got advice on new regulations,
system-wide stewardship, sector reviews,
and capability building, why are you operating under
that single output
and not adopting an MCA approach like other
central agencies are?
And is, are you considering, um, adopting, uh, a more
of an MCA approach?
So there can be, um, scrutiny of
where the spending is going.
'cause at the moment, you're just telling us there's
$20 million that you've got
and we, we are not getting any clarity as a committee on
where or how that money's being spent.
So when we were set up, it was with one appropriation
and that was because it was a new ministry.
Mm-hmm. And I think
what will be interesting is obviously you
as a committee are considering, um,
performance reporting across the public service.
Um, and that might not be something that you will want
to give advice on in terms of how, uh, small, uh, the
appropriations could and should be.
Um, and we'll happily work in with, um,
central agency colleagues
and, uh, primarily treasury around
what they would recommend.
Um, we'll, also we're working with the, um, auditors,
um, and we are planning to re uh,
redo our intentions earlier than planned.
Um, so that could be something that, um,
forms part of that conversation.
Sure. So have you discussed with either Treasury
or your minister the fact that you would like to
give some transparency around others monies being spent
by adopting an MCA approach?
Uh, no, we haven't. Why haven't you discussed that
with Treasury or your minister?
Surely as you're coming up to a revised, um, SOIA statement
of intent, this is exactly the kind of conversation
that you would be having around how we could get
that transparency of spending.
I think we've been developing a number of tools
and I think the, you know, the cost benefit analysis that,
um, our Chief Economist outlined has
been one of those inputs.
So I think we're still gathering inputs. Yeah,
Yeah. Accepted. But
A CBA is an entirely different, um,
approach than having a multi-category appropriation
that is a tool that Parliament needs.
So they can scrutinize the expenditure.
The way you are set up means that parliament cannot
properly scrutinize your expenditure, unlike other central
agencies, um, that do, uh,
that do split their appropriations across function.
Yeah, I mean, a number
of the other central agencies have been going
for a lot longer and, uh, they're mostly all bigger,
but in terms of actually putting it on the,
and they're very happy to take
that on board from the committee.
Um, and also look forward to your recommendations,
provide performance reporting in the public service. So
Will you raise this with
the minister or with the treasury?
Very happy to raise it with, uh, I'll probably raise it
with Treasury in the first instance, see what they think.
Okay. Thank you. Uh, Dr. Webb, thank you.
I've got some questions just around, uh, kind
of the performance
of the ministry in a administrative sense, almost just,
um, looking at your, I asked a question around OIA
and how many complaints have been made you didn't actually
directly respond to that.
Are, are you concerned about the number
of OI made ministry? Sorry?
Are we concerned about the number of o
The number of OIA complaints
that have been made against the ministry?
No, we're not, actually.
So what we do have in terms of, we have the highest number
of oyas per staff across the public service.
Um, and we've dealt with a number of, uh,
a very high volume of oia.
But I'll hand over Richard to Paul,
if you can talk it through.
Thank you. Um, yes.
As um, grant has said, we do respond
to a very high number of oas.
We've prepared responses
for over 1700 OAS since our
establishment to give some context.
Um, and in fact, in the last six months of the 24 25 year,
we received 695 os, um,
and also responded 36 os, um, from MPS as well.
Um, we have been noticed, oh, I notified
of four Ombudsman's complaints
and only one of those decisions
was adverse for the ministry. Well,
Hang on, just, just got stats there.
'cause you referred me, you didn't respond to my question,
but you seem to know what the answer was.
But on this document, which is from the Ombudsman's website,
it says that the Ministry for Regulation had 68 complaints.
We were notified of four complaints from the
ombudsman, and we worked with them
On, well, in the answers to written questions, I asked
how many complaints, and you said, here's a website,
go and find it yourself.
So I did, and the document here says, the Ministry
for Regulation had 68 ombudsman's complaints.
Are you concerned that you have the third highest number
of complaints of all agencies subject to the OAA?
Sorry. I was just going to say that, um, we,
we don't hold an accurate reflection
of the Ombudsman's complaints
because we are only, we clearly, we we're only made aware
of cases where the Oman has received multiple complaints,
they'll bundle that and send it to us.
So it can be about the same issue.
So, but I think if you put that in context of the number of,
um, OAS that we receive,
and in fact that we had the highest number
of OAS per 100 FTE across the entire public service,
and that includes lease,
Well, what's your ratio of the que the real ratio is not
how many per staff member, it's
how many complaints per request.
And if you've had, um, 7,000 requests
and 68 complaints, that's a 1% complaint rate, isn't it?
1%. But that's what,
what is very clear is that the Ministry of Justice,
for example, in terms of the amount of complaints they get
with 4,000 staff, they've got five complaints.
I think also, um, actually one
of my colleagues has helpfully outlined
that there's a slight, uh,
there's different categories of complaints. So
I think probably what would've, uh, I just checking,
I think probably what's happened here is that the,
there would've been a significant number of complaints
of potentially of that 68.
I'm not contesting those because, uh, that related
to the consultation processes potentially associated
with Bill or with our prior policy work on the bill.
And I think what happened, if I recall correctly, is
that there was a degree of bundling of those,
and whilst a significant number
of them were found not having any merit by the ombuds,
we probably only had one engagement in relation
to a large number of equivalent complaints. Right.
Okay. Well, look, I'm concerned that you don't know
how many complaints have been made against you in terms of
regulatory impact statements in terms
of your own performance.
Um, you've, you've done three pieces, um, of work
that require regulatory impact statements
and you did not pass the quality measure
on two thirds of them.
What, why is the ministry, which is the ministry
of regulatory quality, not meeting standards
of regulatory quality?
This is your answer to question 26
and the additional questions
of the regulatory impact statements prepared
by the Ministry for Regulation.
What percentage have complied in full
with the quality assurance standards?
And the answer is two 66%
received partially meets rating, which is not fully meeting.
So what's going on if the ministry which has got the big
stick for other departments can't follow its own rules?
I think the qa, so the QA methodology that is used
that we use, uh, on ourselves as well
as obviously being stewards of that risk of the system, um,
does pull out a range of factors that might mean that a
regulatory impact statement does not meet, uh,
or partially meets in, uh, in our case twice.
Um, and I think, um, to be honest, I would say that
that shows good scrutiny of ourselves in terms
of making sure that we're, um, able to run
high quality policy processes.
We did hold ourselves
to a very high standard is we did the
quality assessment. One
Of the reasons for not meeting it is that, uh,
for the regulatory standards bill,
you didn't explore all options.
Isn't that kind of policy 1 0 1 look at the problem
and explore options for solving it?
The, you're right. I mean, that is policy 1 0 1.
You should look at all options. Uh,
and one of the reasons that the, um, riz for the bill,
which is obviously one of those ones that you are referring
to there, um, did not fully get a compliant Riz.
Um, as I say, as you, as you break out the reasons why a
r when you do the quality impact quality analysis stage,
um, there's a raft of reasons why it might not meet.
Some of those are within the agency's control in terms
of the processes that we run internally.
Some of those are as a result of the policy process,
which is being run in decisions that are being made
by minister in terms of setting the overall framework.
It's one of the points just to step back from that
and rethinking the system as we're doing at the moment,
it is one of the things that we are focused on, um, is how
and when does that quality analysis apply
and what is it actually measuring in terms
of agency performance versus the
other factors that are in play
In, in just a matter of detail for the record,
the consistency, accountability statements
that are gonna come in, they're not
regulatory impact statements will
persist or they'll be replaced.
Those decisions are currently for ministers in terms of,
uh, so being what the rest of the system would look like
Doing. So doing away
with regulatory impact
statements as being considered.
We are currently looking at what all the tools are.
Um, what I can say is that there's a strong desire to retain
a, um, level of impact analysis that ministers will consider
as they're making decisions on the way through.
But we are reshaping what the tools are in order to that,
that consistency, accountability statements
into the process, um, and ensure that we don't have,
I think Megan's got something Just
as long as you're finished.
Duncan, have you finished? Yep.
Can you elaborate on that level of impact analysis?
Is that a change from the current
regulatory impact statement?
Uh, it's more a streamlining to be honest, so
that we're making sure that the new
consistency accountable, sorry,
I'm, I'm, can you lean into your microphone?
Apologies. It's more of a streamlining so
that we're making sure that you don't end up
with duplicative or repetitive content
coming through the system.
So the, the fundamentals of ensuring
that high quality impact analysis, uh, need to remain.
In fact, that is our mission to make sure
that agencies are still doing that effectively.
In fact, we're trying to lift the quality
of impact analysis across the system.
So what's the timeline around that piece of work?
Uh, so ministers are due to make decisions on that shortly
and, uh, we're anticipating new circulars in the new year.
So that's before Christmas.
Making decisions on scraping or changing the, the s
Well, ultimately those, uh, no, I think just to, to
clarify, um, I haven't suggested
that there is going to be a scrapping
No child said end or changing Yeah.
Changing of the process so that we get streamlining
with the new products
and make sure that we still get high quality coming
through decisions for Christmas.
Those decisions are, yes. Okay.
Okay. Todd, did you have Todd Stevens? Oh, sorry.
Just, and that's a cabinet decision, is it,
Uh, in order to do this, we would need
to replace the relevant
cabinet circular, so yes, it's a cabinet.
Okay. Todd, Steven,
Right. Just, um,
I think, uh, you talked a little bit about this,
but I'm just keen, I mean, obviously at the moment you've
got four key outcomes that, uh,
you looked at in your annual report.
High quality regulation, greater transparency, public trust,
and confidence in regulation increased, um, capability.
Just keen for you very briefly to outline
how you went against those four measures, uh,
in the period under review.
And then I think you also, uh, mentioned
that you're looking at a refresh, so Yeah.
Have you, were there some learnings from those four outcomes
that you are able now to kind of refine
and take into the, the new financial year? Yeah.
Um, so I'll probably deal with maybe the last one
and first in terms of that capability across the workforce,
because that is, um, something that, uh,
we will be taking in,
we'll probably be putting more emphasis on
that would be the learning, the appetite for that, um,
and how well we've been received in terms of being able
to make a difference has been very high.
So I would say, um, we have probably, um,
we are definitely filling a need
that was greater than we had anticipated across the system.
So just for clarity, that's the other agent,
other departments and agencies
you're working with have driven that
And also the, uh, yeah.
Um, and, and regulators as well. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
They're asking for your help. Brilliant.
They are, they are asking for our help.
So if we look at, um, the, um, so the four that you said,
sorry, is it the, just
The four current ones? Yeah.
Like high quality regulation, greater transparency,
public trust and confidence and regulation.
These are kinda your outcomes that
You're looking at. Yeah. Um,
so I think, um, public trust
and confidence, um, uh, look, it's, we need to continue
to do work, but again, the high level
of engagement we've had, the positive feedback
that we've had, um, the tip line, the the tip line, Hey,
don't you love talking about the tip line?
But, um, you know, the guy who went, uh, who, one of,
there was three people who contributed
to the tip line on the garden sheds, um,
and one of them was very open on the television around,
you know, actually these people
listen to you, come and talk to us.
And we got a lot of really positive feedback about that.
Um, sorry, go, go for the next one.
High quality regulation,
which I think again leads back a little bit into
what was being discussed previously.
Look, I think, I think, um,
we can definitely do more work there.
Uh, as a new agency, uh, you know, we've,
we haven't been involved in every new
regulatory change in government.
Uh, we've been building our capacity.
Um, I think we can, uh,
we have added value in certain examples such as the buy now,
pay later, um,
but the other, I think there's more work to be done on that,
um, as we basically have the tools, techniques.
So, um, and then you had a fourth one, sorry.
Oh, that was greater transparency. Yeah. Okay.
I mean, the transparency thing, um, we have, um, yeah,
I mean a lot of our work we've tried to be as transparent
as possible and, um, you know, being active about, you know,
creating our website and putting up, um, you know,
proactively reporting on the red tip tip line every
quarter. So yeah. Okay. We've
Got that up and then we might wind it up.
Thank you. Thank you Mr. Chief for that.
Um, the, some of the work you're doing, first of all,
I wanna say some of you're doing good
around a lot of regulatory changes.
Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate that.
Parties across the board would
support at least some of them.
Um, and the stuff you've done around, um, calling out, uh,
people who are not meeting quality standards is good.
I think that's really good initiative.
I guess though it does raise some concerns
because if you look at, uh, proposals
that require a regulatory impact statement in the last year,
but should have, should have had it but didn't have one.
It's, it's more than double the year
before the number of
proposals exempt from regulatory impact double.
Um, and, um, and so, and the list kind of go
and there's, um, a whole lot of impact statements
that don't meet quality standards, which is a worsening
of quality of legislation
and regulation give then prior to when you existed.
So in terms of your performance,
how are you gonna essentially measure
that you are having an impact on regulatory quality
when metrics like that are going backwards?
I think that's why there's a range of metrics,
and that's what would be helpful about the strategic
intentions being able to refresh those, uh,
metrics working alongside, um,
other central agencies working alongside, um, the auditors.
Um, so it's a really good opportunity to take stock
and say, how do we measure all across the ministry, um,
and the multiple work streams that we have.
So, I mean, do you think if that trend continues,
that will show poor performance on your part?
I think there's a number of changes to that system
that are proposed.
Um, and I think we should be measured on, on, uh,
the effective implementation of those changes to ensure
that high quality regulatory decisions are being
made transparently.
That was quite aqui an equivocation
because the meeting of quality standards, including new,
uh, consistency, accountability statements is a really
objective test of whether regulation is being done well.
Can you not accept that if
that we don't see improvements there,
that we should be looking to you for an explanation?
Um, I think as we're, we've got a lot
of things going on at the ministry, there's a lot of ways
of making differences to New Zealanders.
There's a lot of ways that regulation
impacts on people's lives.
Um, and I do think we need to continue to measure, uh,
the impact that we're having as an agency.
Okay. I think we'll leave it at that.
Thank you, uh, Ms. Moss and your executive team. Thank you.
Congratulations. Thank very much in the past
18 months, and thank you.
We appreciate you, uh, appearing before us today
and engaging with US members.
We're gonna just quickly go onto private, um, just
to talk about post hearing questions and.